as Confucius said when it's obvious that
the goal cannot be reached don't adjust
the goals adjust the action steps that
may be the single best piece of advice
you're ever going to get write that down
burn it into your flesh tattoo it on
your soul do whatever you need to do to
remember that once you set a goal once
you've decided in your life there is
something that you're going to make come
true don't let anything stop you from
reaching that but the reality is is you
go things are gonna get in your way
there will be an inevitable slew of
obstacles coming at you but when it gets
so hard that you realize that the path
that you're on is simply not going to
take you where you want to go rather
than give up on what it was you said you
were gonna do find a different path and
in that when you really make that the
cornerstone of your identity that you
refuse to bend or be broken by obstacles
by challenges but instead you rise to
those challenges you go over under
through them you do whatever you have to
you devise any plan to find a way
through then your life will change once
that becomes your reaction to not change
that thing that meant so much to you
that you've dedicated your life to
making it come true that you don't
change that but rather you find another
way you tap into your creativity you
find somebody that can help you you do
whatever it takes to get on the other
side of that you do whatever it takes to
build that life that you want to see but
if your reaction is to change your goal
to make it easier to move it closer to
be less of who you could be simply so
you can check a box you're never gonna
have anything that's worth having and as
Jesse it's lers said the way you conquer
self-doubt is by doing things that make
you uncomfortable
and that's what stops people the reason
that people adjust the goal the reason
that they move it closer the reason that
they lower the bar and make it easier is
because they're afraid they're afraid of
what it says about them they're afraid
that they're not going to be able to
accomplish it they're afraid to tell
people what they're up to they're afraid
to even dream big because they don't
know if they're gonna make it they don't
know if they have inside what it's going
to take to persevere I'm telling you
right now if as a process step you
simply change it so that when something
proves itself to be impossible you don't
ask how do I change it to something that
is possible instead you find another way
around you find a way to believe that
there is always a path to making the
impossible possible that you understand
that as you grow and get better and
become capable of more that you can
overcome things that were impossible
yesterday and that my friends is the key
to accomplishment to understand the only
difference between the possible and the
impossible is your set of skills a
belief in yourself a belief that you can
get good at anything you set your mind
to so make that the pillar upon which
all of your identity stands that when
times get hard you go harder
[Music]
as ernest hemingway noted the world
breaks everyone and afterward many are
stronger in the broken places but my
question is why isn't everyone to me it
comes down to the strategies that you
use there really isn't anything
objectively good or bad there isn't
anything that happens to you that can't
be overcome there isn't anything that
could happen to you anything that when
you turn inward you can't find a reason
to overcome you can't find a way to put
those pieces back together and that
becomes your job it becomes literally up
to you whether you're going to sit and
wallow and what was me
because what happened happened and
there's no way to take it back but how
you respond what you bring to that table
whether you meet fire with fire whether
you meet that adversity with falling
apart becoming weaker in the areas that
broke or you bind them and mend them and
it becomes like a weld that literally
makes you stronger is a choice and it's
a choice only you get to make but as
Stephen Hawking said when you complain
nobody wants to help you there are many
things in your life do you have every
reason to complain about you have every
reason to be upset by the things that
have happened to you the most sinister
thing about excuses is they're valid
there's a million reasons why you should
be able to give up there's a million
reasons why you shouldn't need to try
that thing that broke you you should be
allowed to just sit on the ground and
here's the thing that's you're right you
have every reason to do it and maybe
people won't even think less of you
but here's the truth why they become
weaker or stronger in the places that
broke and that's a choice of how you
react moving forward the great news is
the best thing that you could do to
become stronger is love yourself and as
Kamal Ravi Kahn said loving yourself as
a practice people think that it's
something that's gonna feel right that
it's gonna feel natural that you're just
gonna turn inward and there it is the
spark of love and joy for yourself
inside yourself but the truth is that's
just not the human experience that's not
the way that it works there's gonna be a
voice inside your head and it's going to
blame you it's gonna say that it's your
fault and no matter how many times
people on the outside tell you that that
is not true that this thing happened to
you that it isn't you it doesn't define
you there will be a voice that's going
to tell you that it does and that's
where you have to fall back on process
that's where you have to realize that
you literally have to practice loving
yourself and that it's okay that no
matter what happened there is absolutely
nothing that invalidates that you're
worthy of your own love but you've got
to practice it you've got to be willing
to do it you've got to be willing to put
in the reps you've got to know that it's
not gonna feel right but you've got to
know on the other side of that is a
vision of your life where you actually
do love yourself because you took the
time to say it you took the time to
practice it you took the time to sit
there and feel stupid and say that you
love yourself and sometimes just putting
in the work is what you need to do to
get strong so put in the work
the bass line physics of what it means
to be a person as Earl Nightingale said
we become what we think about and that's
an idea that I want you to hold firmly
in your mind that's something that I
really want you to internalize I really
want you to stop right now whatever
you're doing I want you to stop lean
into this video and listen to what I'm
saying you will become what you think
about really think about that for a
second as if it wasn't just a phrase as
if it's more than just words as if it
were a truth about how the brain works
because it is you're going to become the
thing that you think about and I know
that you're dwelling on a lot of
negative I know that you're
carrying a lot of baggage with you and I
know that as you think about how things
might go wrong that you believe you
believe to the core of your being that
you're just planning for the hard times
but the truth is you're going to become
those things that you fear you're going
to become the things that you dread if
you're thinking about all the things
you've done long in the past you are
going to simply continue that cycle but
if on the other hand and let this be
true let this ring in your ears with the
weight of everything that I carry if
I've ever added an ounce of value to you
if anything I have ever said it seemed
remotely true believe that these are the
most important words I'm ever going to
save you if you begin
to focus on positive things if you begin
to focus on your capabilities if you
begin to focus on a potential that you
have if you really dig in build those
skills drive towards something beautiful
something amazing something that leaves
you in awe you want to create that you
want to become the vessel for that then
you will you will become that thing
because you will take those steps
because you be problem what you think
about and as Mark Twain said 20 years
from now you'll be more disappointed by
the things that you didn't do so if you
don't take those steps if you don't
focus on those things if you don't
manifest what we want to become if you
don't believe in it if you don't see how
real it could be if you can't picture
the version of yourself that you want to
become and even though people have told
you that it's not possible for you that
the things you did in the past are never
going to allow you to do that that
you're not smart enough if you let that
creep into your mind then that's what's
gonna happen but if you can see that
vision if you can allow yourself to
believe it then you're going to take the
steps that you need to execute against
that and if you go out there and do
those things you won't regret it but you
will regret it if you don't so get out
right now
and build the person you want to be so
you can have the life you want to have
[Music]
as Daniel ping said people fail to
achieve mastery not because they aren't
talented but because they aren't
disciplined the wonderful news about the
human condition is you can get good at
anything that you set your mind to it's
just not gonna be easy and it's not
gonna be fast but the willingness to put
in that work is what's going to separate
you from everybody else and I'm begging
you to see yourself right now today as
average as know better than anyone else
but I beg you with more force than I
know how to convey with this language to
see yourself as malleable to see
yourself as capable of becoming anything
you want to become to become truly
extraordinary if you can find within
yourself the discipline to stick with it
long enough and as Steve Martin said
perseverance is a great substitute for
talent everybody wants to talk about
who's talented everybody looks at the
person with innate talent as if they
have something magical but to me it's a
gift it's a handout it's a freebie it
hasn't been earned and no matter what it
is it's only the beginning even somebody
that has talent even if you get an early
win if you let somebody outwork you if
you let somebody who has more
perseverance more grit than you than
they are going to outperform you on a
long
time line the only thing I can guarantee
is you will be out work by somebody
unless you pour your heart and soul into
getting great if you don't take days off
if you put yourself into it as if your
life depended on it when you act like
that then you've got a chance to be
great and as Robert Horry said pressure
can bust pipes but it can also make
diamonds you've got to want that
pressure you've got to want things to be
hard you can't seek out the easy life
you can't just hope and pray that you
can uncover inside of you some talent
that's lay dormant that you didn't know
about that's gonna let things be easy
for you don't want the easy want the
hard what the pressure want the thing
that's gonna turn you into something
because when it's easy you don't work
for it when it's easy you don't push
when it's easy you get surpassed by the
person who has to give it their all
who's prepared to do blood sweat and
tears in order to become that thing that
they want to be so badly because they
are so angry that they were
never given anything and with that chip
on their shoulder they're determined to
become anything that they set their mind
to so whether you have talent whether
you don't the only thing that matters is
will you persevere
will you stick with it long enough to
get great
[Music]
choice is one of the most intoxicating
things in your life it's one of the most
beautiful things any of us are ever
going to encounter but hiding in that
beauty is the most destructive force
imaginable because if you want to get
something done if you want to do that
thing that burns inside of you you have
to remember you can do anything once you
stop trying to do everything the key to
really being successful the key to doing
something at a grand scale the key to
playing on a world stage is to pick
something to be able to stand in a room
with a thousand doors and shut 999 of
them to have the balls to know which
path you're willing to take and to
exclude all others but Intel you can do
that you're never going to be able to
develop the skill set that you're gonna
need to perform because here is the
reality it isn't about what you think
you should have to
amount of energy and drive that you
think is reasonable as Carl von
Clausewitz said pursue one great
decisive aim with force and
determination because that is how you
bend the universe to your real that is
how you impress people that is how you
capture the human imagination and if you
want to do something extraordinary and
be remembered you've got to get so good
that you're performing at a level that
has never been seen before that is the
only path to set the bar ridiculously
high and then surpass all expectations
you can't put it down low and then beat
it and say well look at me people don't
give a they see through that you've
got to do something that leaves their
jaw a gate you've got to do something
that makes the hair on the back of their
neck stand up you've got to leave them
in awe but the only way to do that is to
get that good and the only way to get
that good is to pick one thing and go at
it with everything you've got